From Hansel minutes. Dot
com is Hansel minutes, a
weekly discussion with web developer
and technologists. Scott Hanselman hosted
by Carl Franklin. This is Lawrence Ryan
announcing show number one 72
recorded live Thursday, July 16th, 2009. Support
for Hanselman it's as provided
by. Tellerik already controls the
most comprehensive suite of components
for windows forms and asp.net
web applications online@wwwdottelerik.com. In this
episode, Scott talks technology with
Dan Bricklin, Scott Hanselman. And
this is another episode of
Hansel minutes. And today I'm
sitting down with Dan Bricklin.
He's just written a new
book called Brooklyn on technology,
and you probably know him
as the creator of VisiCalc
can use that software pioneer
and an old guy with
a beard. And I'm just
thrilled as punch to talk
to you today. Dan, thanks
for taking the time. I'm
really glad to be here,
Scott. You're actually a podcast
to yourself. I understand. And
I didn't realize until I
started poking around on your
site, you've got a lot
of content up there. Yeah,
I've been, I've been dabbling
in it in various ways.
I, since I was blogger
for like 10 years or
more, I realized that sometimes
writing things up was to
so much work and doing
it with podcasting was a
lot easier. It gives you
everything. So I, I start
doing that for some events
that I go to and
then I got roped in.
Cause I had all this
equipment. Yeah know, it's just
like being on NPR. We've
got you a recording on
your side and the audio
is going to sound great.
But I noticed that you
still do a lot of
writing and you recently just
wrote a, an article that
I've actually read twice and
I'm still trying to get
my head around a that's
really quite long. It looks
like it's about, I mean
it scrolls forever. It's probably
10 pages of text here
and you're talking about new
modes of interaction. You're basically
bringing together all of the
different kind of big things
that are happening right now
from Google wave to Microsoft
natal. Can you talk a
little bit about that, that
chronology of adoption? Yeah. What
I realized is that there
are a lot of things
that were happening that looked
like they might be very
popular in some area and
that can cause, cause a
change in other areas. I
mean a lot of people
are using a mouse. Suddenly
everybody has to change their
applications to use a mouse
that happened way back when
things that used to not
be on PCs that moved
to PCs. Once the first
things move that became very
popular others did. And I
realized that we're at a
point now where we may
have to do the same
thing of change, change, how
we build things from a
user interface viewpoint, from an
interaction viewpoint we're gooey. We
knew it is. And the
modes of interaction with applications
like we used to have
with plain old Excel and
Adobe illustrator and stuff like
that as if you view
them as the prototypical gooey
applications, the graphical user interface
that we actually are moving,
where we may have to
switch to a new one
that from a programming viewpoint
requires changes just like when
we moved from character to
gooey, we had to make
changes in how we did
our programming And moving from,
from characters, from, you know,
from the 80 by 20
screens or 40 by 22,
gooey seems very clear in
my mind because I was
around when that happened and
it's a very obvious change,
but you know, we've been
pushing windows around for a
very long time. Mice are
pretty much, you know, we're
in the, we're definitely in
the fat part of the
bell curve when it comes
to mice and keyboard. I
I'm having trouble maybe because
I'm not a futurist getting
my head around what could
possibly be next other than
maybe, you know, waving my
hands around. Okay. Well, well
I'm not a futurist in
terms of, I mean, I'm
much more into, I love
to implement. So I look
at it from that viewpoint.
And what does it mean
going to mean to us
as people who are implementing?
And I just remember when
we went from character, well,
when you went to character
based interactive from like punch
cards and stuff like that
from batch to interactive, you
had a program differently and
you structured things differently. And
cause you had to respond
instantly to what was being
typed. You had to be
able to deal back and
forth. You don't just get
all your inputs together, do
a lot of processing and
produce output, but you're, you're,
you're actually watching some input
device. In the case of
moving to gooey, you're working
much more events driven. It's
not just one input stream,
but there are multiple input
streams, different events at different
times. And because it was
very, what you see is
what you get having undo
became very important. That was
the classic way of doing
things so that you could,
you could make mistakes and
stuff. Cause you, you often
did, you, you weren't doing
commands that you knew exactly
what would happen. You're dragging
and dropping and stuff and
you could make mistakes. So
undo came in and you
had to structure your programs
differently because of undo and
frameworks came in to help
us deal with all the
work you had to do
to create windows and, and
to keep track of the,
the housekeeping. I've done a
lot of work in the,
the gestural base, the pen
computing world from way back
when, back in the it's
an old industry, but there
was a good size blip
in the early nineties when
go computer go was making
the pinpoint operating system and
the early pin windows or
windows for pen computing came
in and I've done programming
there and realized that a
lot of the stuff there,
it's not like the mouse
where you can just click
on something and follow a
hierarchy of hierarchy of windows
to figure out what was
meant and where it is.
But there's a lot of
ambiguity and, and figuring out
what gesture was actually made,
et cetera. And the, when
I saw Microsoft natal, what
they were demonstrating as potential
changes in how user interface
would be done to the
game machines. And when I
saw what happened with what
Google is showing with Google
wave and looked and saw
that these are not isolated
things, the technologies that they're
based on are technology, things
that are used elsewhere and
will come about of having
multiple users doing input much
more, much richer gestures, either
touching the screen or not
even touching the screen, but
making motions in front of
the screen, that the, where
the computer watches you and
multiple interactions affecting the program
like with wave and other,
you know, Adobe buzzword and
Microsoft, I think says, they're
going to have it in
the new office, online office
that they're, they're going to
be coming out with where
there's simultaneous editing or two
people might edit even offline.
This is what you had
in Lotus notes years ago.
And then you have to
reconcile with that, that there
is, instead of having one
computer, one file, one user,
we now have an essence,
one file, multiple users on
multiple computers and that's a
different programming paradigm and how
we have to deal with
that and recording everything that
goes on so that I
can play it back. This
Google wave has and letting
you know this, keeping that
whole list. So you can
reconcile and you can know
like what wikis do, where
you can say, who did
this? When you have a
whole history of what happened,
those things are all coming
in and they will change
the way we have to
build some of our applications.
And to me it may
be just as big a
jump as it was when
we went from character base
to gooey based. Are we
just rewriting things or porting
things that have been done
before? I mean, is there
anything actually unique or new?
I mean, you, you've got
a, a historical perspective here,
you know, with each of
these technologies, you said, boy,
you know, we were doing
that before, but you know,
maybe it wasn't time. It
wasn't ready. It seems like,
let me give you one
example. I watched the iPhone
announcement. So for the three
operating system onstage, and they
had some, some health people
up for, I think it
was Johnson and Johnson and
they plugged in a glucose
meter into the, into the
iPhone and they kind of
said, look, I can check
my blood sugar. And this
is amazing. Isn't that isn't
that innovated. And of course,
you know, sitting back at
my home in Oregon with
sour grapes watching this same
man, I was doing that
in 1995. And it was
that the world wasn't ready
for my brilliance is all
of this. Just a matter
of porting things over like,
like you're talking about simultaneous
editing here, we are putting
it into HTTP and moving
it into, into a world
that is now suddenly ready
for that kind of kind
of brilliance. Well, many of
the ideas of what you
might want to do have
been there. I mean, we
would have wanted to do
them a hundred years ago
and you know, and we
keep trying it with computers.
You know, they would try
those things with whatever we
have today. But, you know,
I mean, some of the
things are like, well, let
us take advantage of simultaneous
editing on a word processor
screen, which goes back to
word processing, which goes back
to, you know, whatever. And
we won't even get into
the history of word processing
that I've been involved with
for, Oh, I don't know
many, many years before I
did spreadsheets. I was involved
in word processing and you
know, but that's just saying,
well, the things we used
to do, we should do
in the new path, we
have to apply the new
paradigms to them, but it
often opens up things that
we couldn't do before. In
that let's say with the
glucose meter, we're talking about
being able to have the
device that you use for
so many other things that
is radio connected, that's in
your pocket and that you
use, you know, that has
enormous amount of storage. Now
you can connect a glucose
monitor to it. And it's,
that's just a demo of
what you could do, but
you realize that in the
future, there may be something
even better of how it's
maybe communicating with something that
you've ingested. And which is
interesting that the guy, one
of the guys involved with
the natal soft, the natal
hardware comes from originally was
a company that actually makes
a camera that you can
swallow and is used for
endoscopy that transmits as it
goes down to a belt
that you wear. So that's
not so far fetched that
we could see these things,
but it's that, it's the
mashing up of things that
we didn't match up before.
And the big thing is
it's the volume, you know,
waving at the computer and
saying, put that there was
demonstrated back. I don't know,
around 1980 at the, what
was, what is now called
the media lab at MIT
and their videos, you can
watch of it. And, you
know, and that was on
a huge screen that, you
know, they had to put
this big ground glass in
the building, which customed thousands
and thousands of dollars. And
now we're talking about that
in a video game console
that you buy, you know,
at best buy and that
are used, you know, for
the most mundane of things,
that's a big change that
we went from. Something that
only the richest lit research
lab could do a simple
demo of that versus something
that is robust enough to
be used, you know, by
people who were busy partying
and not paying much attention
and expect extremely good response
from it at price points
that are throwaway price points.
Is that, is that maybe
you've really kind of nailed
it right there is it,
is it, is that the
distance between when someone conceives
of something, you know, starts
formally researching it and then
sells it at Walmart, is
that, is that time a
fixed time? Does it need
to be a decade two
decades now it's a Fixed
time, but it often go,
I mean, you often can
find it being like 20
years. I mean, sometimes it's
10 or 20 years until
the first commercial one. I
mean, think about the mouse
phone. The mouse was first
invented and other pointing devices,
maybe a little bit before
that, until it first was
in a, a normal office
device. I mean, you, you
had, you know, the Xerox
star and then, you know,
you had the, the Lisa
and then a can almost
consumer level at Mo marketed
as such with the, the
Macintosh, but then into it
being accepted generally in business
and in the home as
the dominant way was yet
another, I don't know what
eight years or something like
that. So some of the
things that we're seeing much
faster, you know, in terms
of like self certain things
with cell phone and things
like that, adoption, you know,
the adoption of digital cameras,
I don't know. It depends,
you can always go back
and find something that goes
way back. You know, that's
even more primitive that somebody
tried, but as I point
out in the essay, I
realized that there were these,
you know, when you, when
you hear from a marketing
viewpoint and business viewpoint, they
talk about early adopters and,
and, you know, and then
the, the, the early majority
and, you know, the late
majority and stuff, but that's
a purchase I was looking
in terms of wins, is
it become the way that
everything is done is the
platform accepted, right? Even if
it was well accepted in
a narrow area, when does
it become accepted for even
glucose meters now connect to
your cell phone as opposed
to being a standalone device?
Well, then you start getting
into things like standardization. So,
you know, for example, as
a diabetic 12, let me
see here 2015 years ago,
they would cost me a
hundred dollars for a glucose
meter. I'd have to, you
know, get a prescription or
go hunting for one. And
it would take a minute
from the time I gave
it my blood until it
gave me a number. Now
I can go to Walmart
and I can buy one
for five bucks. They've changed
the model. It's like Gillette,
where they sell the blades
and give away the razor.
I can get a glucose
meter for virtually nothing. And
it takes five seconds to
check my check, my numbers.
And that took, you know,
10, 15 years, how long
until we have standardization though,
because right now every glucose
meter is different. Every test
strip is different. You'd like
to be able to show
up and, and say, Oh,
here's the glucose meter for
my Nokia phone. But, but
ultimately it would be better
than that, right? Because they're
just now talking about standardizing
cell phone, power, adapters. When
is it going to be
that everybody basically gets, you
know, you know, basically blood
tests that they do periodically
or can do as frequently
as they want for check
and other health things that
are just as a matter
of course, they're, tri-quarter basically
everybody has their mini tri-quarter
as part of what they
do. Just like all sorts
of things now are so
cheap. And so widespread that,
you know, we put them
in the middle of other
things who would believe that
GPS would be something you
would throw into a cell
phone as a sort of
a side effect thing. That's
interesting if you just say
it because it became so
small, it was like, well,
there's one more device that
we're carrying around that has
batteries and buttons and a
screen. Yeah. You know, I
mean, I remember there was
a time in the mid
nineties where I think I
had six or seven devices
that I was charging simultaneously.
I was just wishing that
whatever the core, the essence
of that device would become
standardized. Yep. The core rather
would, would sit inside of
a host. I always expected
that a company would start
up a screen input battery,
you know, shell. And then
we would plug in these
modules. I thought it might
be the, the handspring visor,
which was the first Palm
pilot that had that, that
slot in the back. Right.
I never would have guessed
that it would have been
a phone that would become
that thing. Whether it be,
you know, any smartphone, Blackberry,
iPhone, or a windows, mobile,
whoever, whoever standardizes that faster
is gonna is gonna win.
Yeah. I mean, there's, it's,
it's wind is the thing
that the minor use that
you need it for anyway,
like cell phones needed it
to do positioning for nine
one, one, okay. Per emergency
positioning that once you need
it for that, it's also
available for so many other
things. And the cost then
the incremental cost is nil
or nothing. And of course
this becomes very disruptive to
other devices or businesses that
are based upon the scarcity
of that type of thing.
And that you want a
specialized one. This has happened
of course, with voice where
a voice over IP basically
cost nothing compared to other
things you want to do
over the internet. So that,
that used to be extremely
dear and costly. And you
could charge for now as
a matter of fact comes
for free when you do
other things that you're willing
to pay for. And the
thing about the cell phone
is I point out, you
know, in the book, in
that early chapter on what
will people pay for communicating
with loved ones is a
very, a social aspect. Is
there a very compelling thing
and often will drive why
you will buy a device
and pay for things. And
once you have that, then
other things come for free.
That the reason that we
carry a cell phone, I
believe is very social. You
sort of hold on to
the cell phone. Many people,
you know, it's a comforting
thing because it's a wormhole
that on the other ha
the other side is all
of your spacetime warped all
of your friends and relatives,
people that matter to you,
especially the cell phone, that
your personal one let's ignore
the business. So many, you
can turn off business stuff,
but, and you see people
clutching it with and bringing
it as a, a feeling
of security holding it. Like
they would a, a railing
when going up and down
steps. Yeah. Is it, is
it the emotional connection? I
mean, in your essay, on
what people will pay for
it, you say that no
people will, will pay for
that interaction with people they
care about, but I'm starting
to wonder if, if how
much of technology is driven
by that emotional connection versus
by fear. I mean, don't,
we carry cell phones out
of fear. I mean, I
remember I have told my
wife a number of times
when she's left without her
cell phone, I've had kind
of irrational discussions where it's
like, you didn't have your
cell phone. I couldn't get
ahold of you. Right. Well,
just, it was just a
hundred years ago, we would
say, all right, I'm going
to go over that Hill
there, if I'm not backed
by August, you know? Yeah.
Well, it's, I mean, originally
a lot of people would
get them because, Oh, well,
my car might break down
in a deserted area and
I need to be able
to, you know, in the
snowstorm, I want to be
able to call. And, but
they found out that the
reason they liked it and
the reason they'll pay for
more minutes is completely, I
mean, otherwise you just need
what you're talking about. You
just need a, an emergency
call, but people pay for
unlimited minutes and, you know,
and love the unlimited nights
and weekends and stuff like
that. And the text messaging
and stuff, a lot of
which is, as I point
out is very much like
primates sitting there next to
each other, pulling nits off
of each other. You know,
it's a, it's a social
thing. And social things are
very important. The social aspect
of things are very important.
We think of them as
important to us, but we
often ignore the fact that
it's important to others and
don't take that into account.
And that's one of the
things I point out. I
mean, I try to show
a lot of things throughout
the book about how it,
isn't always what you might
think it is. Unless if
you look carefully and about
what's really going on, it's
worth looking to see what's
really going on. And a
lot of the early decisions,
like, well, this blogging stuff,
I mean, it's just people
in pajamas who don't know
what they're talking about and
how can they make money
where the real question was,
how are newspapers going to
stay in business? And if
you look back on what
bloggers wrote back, for example,
the democratic national convention in
2004, some of what they
wrote was pretty good in
hindsight. I mean, pretty amazing
stuff. And only, I mean,
as I was putting this
stuff together to show some
history, some examples of what
happened throughout blogging, the history
of blogging. And I was
looking at what was written
back then, and in perspective,
they were pretty good, even
though people were making fun
of them and people were
making fun of them about
how blogging will never make
it compared to national media.
And now of course the
blogs and personal media are
now major sources of information
and drive politics in many
ways. Yeah. So just the
democratization of technology, the idea,
like what you said about
before that there was a
time when, when no one
had this, I mean, you
could go and you could
go back even farther. We've
talked before on the show
about the idea that, you
know, no one could read
and there, there was a
time when no one saw
pieces of paper or parchment
only the monks had those
pieces of parchment. And now
I probably wouldn't step down
to pick up an old
Nokia phone that I found
in the gutter. Hmm. Is
it just the leveling of
the playing field? Yeah. Well,
I mean, personal computers, that
was the beauty of watching
personal computers come in. What
it did is it took
something that only big companies
could afford, you know, graphic
arts departments and, you know,
for, I mean, you know,
newsletters, you know, suddenly the,
the, the, the smallest nonprofit
or club could have, you
know, produce newsletters that were
as good looking as the
best things produced by corporations
before that, in terms of
keeping track of information with
a database and know, and
transaction processing, you could run
it on a personal computer
with DBAs and stuff like
that, and have just as
good information as the big
corporations had. And so the
personal computer and computing, the
dropping in price of computing
technology is leveling the playing
field for many things and
is bringing to more people
abilities that didn't exist before.
It was interesting at the,
the hearing on the, the
Supreme court justice yesterday, where
Senator the new Senator Franken
asked a question about isn't
the internet, something where first
amendment, we have to think
about it because it is
a dominant way in which
we communicate and express ourselves
in speech, which is a
very interesting that this is
who could believe that, that,
and knowledgeably on both sides,
the questioner and the, the
justice being questioned that at
Supreme court hearings, justices would
ask about their TV shows
or their iPods that, you
know, that level of technology
acceptance just blows the mind
of us from the old
days when people would make
fun of these, these toy
computers and how it's now
become something that has given
great power to all sorts
of people, but disrupting business
models and things the same
way, the automobile disrupted all
sorts of problems with buggy
whips and, and horse feed
and stuff. Hey, everybody, this
is Scott coming at you
from another place in time.
Summer is peaking, and our
friends at Tellerik are working
at full steam. They've just
released the Q2 volume of
the Telerik premium collection for.net.
The biggest release yet it's
packed with new things, that'll
excite anyone. Who's got to
do anything with that net
development, starting with several light
and the introduction of the
first commercial 3d chart in
the market. It's developed as
a true vector 3d, which
gives you a nice performance
and rich capabilities with rotation
and animations. Also the Silverlight
scheduler, which is packed with
even more features in the
first version. Telerx flagship rad
controls for asp.net. Ajax grows
in this release, not only
with four new controls, but
also with new productivity tools.
There's the new visual style
builder, an online application that
allows you to visually modify
skins or even design new
ones with just point and
click. If that's not enough,
they've added a completely new
product, a free testing framework
powered by art of test
for automating Ajax. And Silverlight
rich internet applications. I'm short
on time. So I can't
give you all the new
features and enhancements until our
reporting open-access RM or wind
forms, but I encourage you
to check out all of
these products@tellerik.com. Thanks. Have we
seen the, you know, the
complete set of the class
of electronic devices that have
become that pervasive? I mean,
are we, you've got, you
know, before we had radios
and TVs, and that was
pretty much it, right there
was, that was the extent
of electronics. And then there
were, you know, there were
certainly cars and things like
that, but as far as
like the electronics, the average
Joe interacted with on a
regular basis, it was pretty
much a maybe a calculator.
If there was an accountant
around some kind of a
paper, you know, a calculator
produces paper, but now we're
looking at time shifting digital
video, digital video in your
pocket, cell phones, personal computers.
Is there some other class
of device? I mean, I
remember when the Sony Walkman
came out and everyone said,
no, one's gonna use that.
It looks silly. Who's going
to walk around with headphones
on their head. It's never
gonna have. Right. And then
the same thing with, with,
you know, cell phone health
headphones. Right. And now, yeah.
And I, I, you know,
I don't think that one
is, I'm going to have
say, I don't think that
one's going to change. I
cannot think of anything more
irritating than what I say.
I watched a guy have
dinner with his family recently
at a restaurant. And he
had that stupid thing plugged
into his head the whole
time he wasn't talking to
anybody, but it just gave
that impression that at any
moment, I could receive a
call more important than my
family and I, and I
need to take it. And
the act of lifting the
phone to my ear is
so, so much effort that
I'm going to just go
ahead and keep it plugged
in. Like  from star
Trek because, you know, I'm
just, that's how I roll
Suppose instead, that what that
was doing is augmenting their
conversation with you being used
as that, or as those
of us who are getting
older and are hearing, you
know, too many rock concerts
and stuff hearing is going
that if it's acceptable to
have big things on your
ears and assistive devices like
that, then maybe we don't
have to make these tiny
little, you know, hearing AIDS
that have to be invisible,
but we can go with,
we can do things that
maybe technically could be much
more powerful by being able
to use bigger ones, because
it's now socially acceptable to
have something big on your
head. I mean, yeah. And
that's something I've been looking
and hoping would happen, but
we'll see The augment, the
augmented reality thing is very
interesting. I was at a
Microsoft conference recently and a
guy showed me a, and
I think we're all into
star Trek metaphors in this
talk. I'm not sure if
that's bringing the talk in
a good direction or bad
direction, but kind of a
Jordy Lefarge style, you know,
sunglasses that had, I think
it was an 800 by
600 screen. I could see.
And basically they were taking
advantage of the way that
the eye worked such that
you, it wasn't actually blocking
your vision, but it looked
like it was overlaid over
your vision. And it was
entirely voice-based. So you could
be walking around and say
something like, you know, navigate
to cnn.com and it would,
it would come up. It
was kind of like, like
you just described in the
background. Right. And then recently
there was a smartphone application
that said that too many
people were bumping into poles.
Well, texting. Right. So what
it ended up doing was
it takes the camera on
the phone and it makes
the background of your email.
What's behind the, Oh, that's
very one. When, like, you
remember You're walking forward with
your head down, but you're
actually looking forward by virtue
of the fact that the
camera works that way. I
thought that was a very
strange way to kind of
augment reality. Yeah. Well, I
mean The, the original Walkman
had a microphone on it
so that when, and to
ear phones, to earphone plugs,
so you could be walking
with a friend, but you
could hear the sounds of
walking, you know, of, of
cars going by if you
wanted to, they eventually dropped
that. I guess that's a
great idea. It's, it's cool
to have that idea, but
I'm thinking in terms of
augmentation, well, first of all,
when you think this natal
ability to gesture and stuff,
so you don't even have
to be seen what you're
doing in essence, you're signing
to the computer in a
way, or, you know, or,
or it's not just waving
as much as you could
at the same time that
you're talking, you can be
controlling and the other person
can see you doing it
and understanding it so that,
and of course, they may
have one too. So I
could say, Oh, it was
a really cool thing. I
saw look at this, you
know, I mean, and we
bring it up on both
our screens, which is kind
of an interesting thing to
do, and that still hasn't
happened. Yeah. I mean, we're
going to have that stuff.
I think that we have
the device with the cell
phone, the, the thing that
basically the small thing that
you carry in your pocket,
the Palm pilot was one
of those, the cell phone,
the, the digital camera. And
we're merging a lot of
those things together. Some uses
of computing, such as simple,
you know, the equivalent of
text messaging or whatever, sending
a message asynchronously that people
can look at when they
want that doesn't bother. Doesn't
require them to give their
whole attention and stop everything
they're doing instantly synchronously with
you to communicate. But I
think we're going to see
more wall sized devices and
we can communicate, we can
control them much better now
that we have, if we
have gestural interfaces, like we're
seeing with CNN and CNN
frequently uses that, that magic
wall with multiple people, as
they discuss and look at
things, there's one, person's talking
to another and saying, see
this, and it's augmenting the
conversation. And the control of
it is much more, more
transparent to both people watching
it. And I also think
it's really something that means
training is better because I
watch you use it. I
learned things that I didn't
know, I could do A
really good point. And I
think that people definitely want
that kind of interaction because
I think that the listeners
would probably agree that often
we'll find ourselves watching a
TV show or a movie
with, with the spouse or
in a, in a group.
And someone says, Hey, is
that, that actor from that
thing, whoever has the tiniest
laptop definitely pulls up the
internet movie database to look
at that. And then the
laptop is passed around, right?
That interaction could happen on
a giant, giant table in
front of you, right. Or
an, on an overlay somewhere
on the screen itself that
everyone's already looking at. It's
kind of ironic that we
want that interaction so much
that we would drag the
laptop along with us. Right.
And it may be so
much more socially acceptable to
be doing the search while
they watch you doing it,
rather than have you turn
your head down and lose
the co from the conversation
that we were both sort
of checking at the same
time. I mean, there's, there's
all this fine tuning of
it. And, you know, I,
I try to, you know,
in the book, I try
to provide lots of background
for a lot of this
thinking, learning to think that
way I wrote the essay
because I was in a
certain mindset having worked on
this book in essence, this
is like a last chapter
that was written based on
stuff that happened after the
book was done, that I
got used to looking at
these, putting a lot of
things together, looking at some
trends, the sensitivity like professor
Arielli that I talk about
in a chapter about cooperation.
We're about how about the
difference between free versus not
free. And there are a
whole lot of social aspects
of what I'll do for
a group. And what I'll
do only when I'm here
paid and the aspect of
that back to star Trek.
Yeah. The interview that I
did, which was available first
as a podcast, but it's
a transcript in the book
with a, a person who
was the commander of the
USS enterprise. Okay. Not the
star ship enterprise, but the
USS enterprise. And he was
a commander of that fleet
on September 11th, 2001 as, as an
aircraft carrier. Yeah. It's an
aircraft carrier, actually. It's a
battle group that included an
aircraft carrier and they, and
after they got to watch
of course on CNN or
whatever, you know, what was
happening in New York and the
Pentagon and stuff and horrified,
but then they, they zipped
it over to near Pakistan,
I think, and starch and
shot the first cruise missiles
that were sent to, to
Afghanistan. Okay. When this captain
was controlling and the people
were controlling the cruise missiles,
they did it using chat
rooms. Okay. And w w
with maybe hundreds of people
in a variety of chat
rooms, controlling military, real military
equipment, where the commander, the,
the, you know, the head,
the, the head Admiral or
whatever was able to, and
watch what was going on,
and maybe see a comment
from somebody multiple levels down
and use their background to
say, Oh, you know, this
means such and such. And
it's all quiet. It's very
eerily, quiet and nice and
calm because a lot of
it's not people yelling squawking
into microphone and radios, and
this is completely different than
the image you got in
star Trek, which is so
1950s command and control. You
know, that the, the, the
top person talks to the
next level, who talks to
the next level, talks to
the next level. And there's
a big conference call in
essence, it's a big conference
call, but it's done, it's
it. But conference calls, you
have to be careful of
who's speaking, when you have
a lot of multiple chat
rooms, all, you know, you're
looking at multiple ones on
the screen. I mean, this
is how they really work
today. If you can't do
multiple chats, you can't be
a Navy seal. That kind
of weird, not just, you
have to be able to
see well and shoot well,
and, you know, certain things
like that, two to, to
be, you know, really good
in the military, you have
to be able to deal
with multiple chat conversations, which
I found out that wasn't
the image we had in
the old days and this
technology driven that makes this
possible. Cause that wasn't possible.
I mean, they used to
have many people would be
on a telephone call, right.
But how many telephone calls
can you be on at
once? You can only sit
in on one and what
happened during nine 11? Well,
some people didn't have them
to be listening to the
right call at the right
time. You know, I mean
with certain things and, and
we, we had point to
point communications. And if you
look at than other chapter,
I talk about a lot
what happened in during nine
11 and stuff with communications
and what we learned from
that, and the fact that
we could have multiple conversations
simultaneously is a technology thing.
We didn't have radios don't
make that easy. Cause we
attention. We can only listen
to one at a time.
Well, and ultimately we can
only look at a chat
one at a time, but
we can read faster than
we can here. We can
roll back. This gets back
to, to, you know, Google
wave and stuff. The fact
that you can roll back
and, and say, Ooh, wait,
what was this? What did
I miss? You know, when
they say, Dan, what do
you think? You know, you
can quick, quick, quick roll
back and see what the
conversation was to be able
to, you know, which, you
know, depending on how much
is happening, how fast, but,
you know, younger people I'm
assuming have been, this is
where there is a difference
in age. A lot of
younger people are much more
used to having doing multiple
things. They're paying attention to
being, doing homework at the
same time that you're chatting
with multiple people or whatever
that, you know, to older
people. We just can't imagine
such a thing, you know,
and aren't skilled at it,
but that is a skill
that many people do have
now. Right. You know, one
of the things that is
that is significant about all
the things we've talked about
is that the, you know,
in a lot of instances,
the language and the application
architecture are not there for
us to, to do these
things. That's right. To the,
the appropriate level of abstraction.
Isn't quite there yet. There's
too much asynchrony for the
average programmer to handle right
now systems as they are,
or these kinds of systems
would be very difficult to
write. Okay, we need frameworks
just like windowing to, I
mean, just think what it
was like, Oh, we have
graphics. Well, you know what?
It's like to build an
entire windowing system. If you
had to do it yourself,
you know, and to make
the scroll bars work right.
And all those things. And,
and, you know, so you
really like to have the,
the library is the API
APIs, the, the frameworks for,
for dealing with all of
those things, the tools that
let you do that. And
in these new paradigms that
we're seeing the, that we're
expecting computing to work because
we use it in other
parts of our lives so
much, that's going to drive
changes. And that's why I
raised the flag and suddenly
realized, Oh, we gotta, as
programmers, we have to realize
that we're going to have
to deal with this over
time, and then not too
distant future. And even in
corporate, eventually you have to
switch. It may not be
10 years from now, but
you may have to start
learning some of this and
to know when it's appropriate.
No, at the beginning of
the interview, I kind of
tongue in cheek introduced you
as an old guy with
a beard. I think that,
you know, guys like myself
that are, you know, I
mean, I'm in my mid
thirties, kind of have this,
this archetype of the old
Unix guy with a beard
when, and I'm surprised, it
feels like there's, there's fewer
older folks. And I don't
necessarily mean old guys, ladies,
as well as fewer older
folks than, than I would
have expected by now. How
come you're not tired of
computers? Why didn't you burn
out and start fishing? Well,
I love it. I mean,
I actually changed my life
from being a, you know,
a CTO who was, wasn't
doing much to going back
to programming and I've been
doing a lot of programming
most of in JavaScript recently
before that's in Pearl and
stuff. Cause well, I'm frequently
asked questions and I like
to, and I do consulting
of various sorts, et cetera.
And I need to know
what's what's happening today. And
I love programming. I love
it when, you know, I
mean, if, you know, if
you're a programmer, you know,
the joy of the craft
and I happen to like
that a lot. I mean,
I, I, wouldn't talking to
bill Gates. I've had him,
I've been talking, I've talked
to him in times when
he, you know, wistfully, you
can see a look on
his face. All I remember
when I shipped code, you
know, the last time on
the TRS 80 model 100
or something. And the, that
was, you know, it's a
thing that I love and
I need to stay up
to date to be able
to comment upon it. But
so often I hear about
people who've only been doing
this five years, 10 years.
They're like, Oh, I'm burned
out. It's coming too fast.
How, how do you keep
from getting burned down with
the, which Typically I go
back and do the other
thing and I'll do a
startup or something I'm involved
in business and stuff like
that. Or I do expert
witness work. I get to
look in the, go back
to the past, looking at
old patent stuff or things.
Yeah. It's been, there's lots
of, but I happen to,
I mean, I like it.
I mean, and maybe those
that burn out quick, weren't
meant for it. You know,
a, you know, I mean,
there are a lot of
people who made it through
the, that horrible time after
2000, you know, when you
couldn't, there was no money
for tech and stuff like
that. And those that stayed
in it, not for the
money, they stayed in it
for the love of the
technology, but there are many
ways of going, maybe what
you're doing, you should like,
I'm starting to do more
programming. I think I'll be
doing more programming for the,
the handheld for the mobile
phone. You know, I have
a Oh and iPod touch
and I have a, an
Android, you know, G one
and I just got a
Palm pre. And since I'm
a JavaScript programmer, I'm very
excited about the Palm pre.
And I'm excited that, you
know, when I see how
Google is pushing, what you
can do with HTML five
and things, and Microsoft acknowledging
that you can do a
lot with the stuff they're
showing with the latest, you
know, incarnations of their tools
they're doing using the browser.
It's, you know, there's cool
stuff there. And there's always
new things you can get
into. You know, I got
into Penn computing a while
back, I got into blogging
and podcasting. I'm having the
fun of working with all
this cool electronic audio equipment.
I got to, I tried
writing a book, which, which
was an interesting experience in
terms of that they'll being
the son of and grandson
of a printer. I had
been in the, you know,
the print world in various
ways, way back when and
type C type setting and
computerized type setting and word
processing. So there are always
new things you can keep
fresh with. You don't have
to be, you know, implementing
the, the 504th trend compiler,
which in our days, that's
what I, that was the,
the thing I was taught
to be in college, you
know, is to be a
developer of Fortran compilers or
something like that. There's always
something new you can do
with computing to keep it
fresh. Yeah. I it's, it's
interesting is that, that, that
is the question that comes
to that. People ask me
the most, is that, how
do you keep it fresh?
How do you keep from
getting bored and how do
you keep from getting overwhelmed
at the same time? It's
just the idea that there
are, there are those. And
I was this guy too.
I always, I have this
archetype that I refer to
of the, the chief architect
of the Nebraska department of
forestry. You know, he's got
some kind of an important
job and he's in charge
of something important, but his,
his, his, his job betrays
him. And it's, it's difficult
to, you know, be an
access programmer for, for 10
years and not eventually just
completely get burned out and
say, gosh, I wish I
could work on this. And
then life and everything prevents
one from tinkering around in
the garage, but it sounds
like you just have to
just do it. You just
jump in, you know, you
jumped into podcasting, you got
your equipment, you're doing videos
on YouTube. Now you just
have to keep pounding forward.
It sounds like, Yeah, you,
you have to figure out,
I mean, video I got
into, because I was getting
into open source and licensing
and legal stuff. And I
wanted to do a training
video about to train programmers
about the, you know, some
legal things. Cause I figured
a program or talking to
a programmer would be a
good thing. And it was
either pay somebody to videotape
me or teach somebody to
blog who set up my
in return, set up a
studio for me so that
I could buy the equipment
for the same amount of
money I could have paid,
hired a crew for and
do it myself. And then
suddenly I was into video
and had learned to edit
and stuff like that. But
you know, that's why you
have to look at what
changes that are occurring. That
even if you're at, you
know, a department of something
or other, maybe the technology
has moved where it is
in the interest, not just
for fun, but in the
real interest of your institution,
that there'd be a step.
The next thing you do,
you can build in a
way that you can take
advantage of some of the
new things. And on the
side you may just have
to, you have to stay
fresh, but you have to
carefully choose what it is
you're going to do. I
mean, Microsoft makes it that
you, you have to relearn
how, what it means to
be a Microsoft programmer every
certain number of years, you
know? And if you get
off the track of doing
that, you fall behind. I
mean, the stuff I know
how to do, you know,
with the old MFC and
stuff like that, probably doesn't
help me today in.net the
same way that, you know,
I'd have to go back
and get a new person
coming in is necessarily going
to jump. Maybe just as
fast as I would be.
Right. Right. I mean, windows
itself, fundamentally hasn't changed. So
if you jumped into wind
farms, now the constructs are
there, but you're right. All
the patterns are, all the
patterns are different. I mean,
the JavaScript that I learned,
isn't the JavaScript that there
is today. Yep. And so
you you're, you're constantly being
forced. That's one of the
things about being a programmer
that I've seen over the
years is that you do
have to constantly reeducate yourself
every once in a while,
you basically are going to
spend three to six months
of not being very productive
while you start, you know,
learning some new, new type
of technology that you're going
to use. A lot of
programmers are real good that
I know basically choose the
jobs they are getting by.
Whether it's going to keep
them fresh or not, and
willing to take ones that
may not pay as well
specifically so that they can
become fresh and get into
the latest. But you have
to choose. There's always so
many of them choosing which
one is the one to
learn, which will teach you
a generic skill. That could
be helpful in many others.
That's kind of tough. That's
why it helps to look
back and see how things
have moved over time. And
when does something resonate that
this is one to jump
to this, isn't going to
be a dead end for
me that I've always see
you. You would view me
as a gray beard though
on the cover of the
book, they have the picture
that I used in my
early blogging. So I wasn't
great yet. The inside you'll
see pictures of me with
gray beer. Now my beard
is quite correct, but when
I was, Oh, when I
first started working at one
of the times that digital
early in my career at
digital equipment corporation and I
was 25, I was working
for somebody who I was
born the year I was
born. He was in college
working on the whirlwind project
and you can actually see
pictures of him. What Edward
R Murrow, when he interviewed
Jay Forrester showing early computers
in 1951, the year I
was born and I was
working for somebody who was
my age at the time
I was working with him
when I was born. And
this is a guy who
I think helped invent the
index register or something like
that or something that was
used in, in, in, in
macro assemblers or something like
that. Something we just did.
So take for granted. And
he was involved in that
in the fifties. And then
I was involved in things
you would take for granted
in the seventies. And, and
now, you know, it's the
same type of thing that
there's always people who go
way back and you, you
want to go see this
as what can I learn
from what happened? I listened
very carefully to what Jack
would say, what Jack Gilmore would
say about the good old
days and you know, stories
from, they were pulling all
nighters for the demo they
were doing for TV. The
same way we do them
today. It's just really weird.
Some of the same stuff
just keeps coming back. And
it's just part of the
part of the craft. It
does all come back. Well,
people can read your, your
new book. They can go
to brooklyn.com and you've got
a link right there on
the home page. And you're
on Twitter now as a
and V. So twitter.com/dan being,
I'll put all the links
for all of this stuff
up on the, the show
site so that folks can
connect with you online. I'm
good. I appreciate it. I'm
glad that you like it.
Well. Yeah. Well, thanks so
much for sitting down to
chat with me and giving
me as much time as
you did. I really appreciate
it. Take care. This has
been another episode of Hansel
minutes and I'll see you
again next week.